# Piano Pedagogy News
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/Yij2VPJZ1h8
### Description:
"Piano Pedagogy News" is a web app that scrapes articles from various news sites and blogs, displays said articles in reverse chronological order, and allows users to favorite articles to be saved for later.
#### News:
The "News" section of the app draws articles from Google News. It does this using the "pygooglenews" library. Articles are added to the "news.db" database under the "news" table. The index page of the app then draws from this SQL database to generate its list. For ease of sorting, datetimes are converted to integers before they are put into the database. All dates are converted to integers so that it is very simple to compare for purposes of sorting when it comes time to display the articles.
#### Blogs:
The "Blogs" section of this app functions similarly, but because the articles are sourced from several different sites, a different function had to be written for each site. The three sites that are currently used are "Piano Adventures Blog," "Color in my Piano," and "iPad Music Ed." To gather the articles for this site, the Beautiful Soup library was used. This library uses HTML tags to find pieces of information, and since each site organizes its HTML somewhat differently, the HTML tags each function searches for are changed from one another. The information is gathered using a combination of searching for HTML tags and CSS class selectors, and then either text or links are taken and added to a SQL database, titled news.db. 
##### Favorites:
The favorites function reacts to the submission of a button included with each article, which is given a unique ID corresponding to its SQL database entry. Said articles are then added to an additional SQL table which includes the User ID of the currently logged in user. Articles are then displayed in the "Favorites" page in a manner similar to the "index" and "blogs" pages. The "favorites" tab only appears when the user is logged in. To implement this, the SQL database makes use of foreign keys linking the users, blogs, and news tables. Unique indexes are applied to "newsid" and "blogsid" columns to make sure favorites can't be duplicated. The python code then must use a "try, except" construct to make sure the code doesn't return an error if the unique constraint is failed.
#### Log in, register:
Log in and registration functions are similar to those from CS50 finance, except in place of an "apology" function, javascript is used to turn fields' borders red and display an error message in HTML when a user makes an error. Functionality is added to allow users to change their password. The change password link in the navbar only appears when the user is logged in. 
#### Image credits:
Background image courtesy of George Becker.